1. Adlabs Imagica

India's big-budget, hi-tech Adlabs Imagica opened in 2013. Modeled on Universal Studios, it has more than 25 themed rides (including the country's largest roller coaster and 4D stimulation rides) and five themed restaurants. The idea behind it is to enable escapism through fantasy and the bringing alive of stories. As part of the second and third phases of development, Aqua Magica Water Park opened in September 2014, followed by the opening of the five-star Novotel Imagica Khopoli hotel in September 2015. A Snow Park was launched in April 2016. This makes it a very attractive vacation option for families.
Location of it is Khopoli, halfway Between Mumbai and Pune, just off the Mumbai-Pune Expressway.


2. Kingdom of Dreams
Kingdom of Dreams, opened in 2010, is a huge live entertainment and leisure destination that brings together the carnival that is India. It encompasses both Indian culture and performing arts. The highlight is Culture Gully, an elaborate arts, crafts, and culinary boulevard -- complete with street performers. It's like an air-conditioned version of Dilli Haat. Other features include a state-of-the-art auditorium (Nautanki Mahal) for live productions, and a multi-faceted theater space (Showshaa). Don't miss seeing a live Bollywood musical!
Location of it is Near IFFCO Chowk Metro Station, Sector 29, Gurgaon (Delhi).


3. Wonderla Bangalore

Wonderla is a world-class amusement park chain that's expanding across India. The park in Bangalore is the best and has over 50 rides. 12 rides are water-based, 13 are especially for small children, and 10 are high-thrill. If you love getting wet, don't miss the Rain Disco -- an indoor dance floor with psychedelic laser lights and a rain system that provides showers of warm water, choreographed to the music. There's also a resort on the premises, so you can stay there. 
Location of it is Near Bangalore, on the Bangalore-Mysore Highway.


4. Wonderla, Kochi

Lush and tropical Wonderla Kochi is set into the side of a hill, and is popular with families. It has around 40 rides and attractions, classified into four types: Family, Water, Kiddies, and Hair Raising. Wonder Splash, a boat journey into a cave filled with mystery followed by a splash down into a crystal clear pool, is popular. There's a 3D movie theater as well. 
Location of it is In Pallikkara, near Kochi in Kerala.


5. Wonderla, Hyderabad

The third and newest Wonderla opened in Hyderabad in April 2016 with 43 rides, including 18 that are water-based and six that are high-thrill. The park also has India’s first reverse-looping roller coaster, and first space flying experience (Mission Interstellar)! 
Location of it is Near Hyderabad airport, on Outer Ring Road Exit 13.


6. Ramoji Film City

Also near Hyderabad, Ramoji Film City is a huge film studio complex where thousands of Indian movies are filmed every year. If you've ever wanted to see how movie sets come to life, this is the place. It also has live shows, an eco zone (including a bonsai park and butterfly park), bird park, theme park with rides, adventure park, and entertainment park for the kids. Activities include All Terrain Vehicles, bungee jumping, zorbing, and paintball. Special celebrations are held during Dussehra and Diwali.
Location of it is Hyderabad, in Telangana.


7. Essel World and Water Kingdom, Mumbai
  
Essel World, established in 1999, was the first amusement park in India. Although it's a bit dated these days, it is one of the largest in the country and has managed to remain a favorite. There are more than 30 rides, a Water Kingdom water park, bowling alley, ice skating rink, and Aquadrome dance floor. The highlight is the frightening new Monsters in the Mist dark ride, which is apparently the first of its kind in India. Special celebrations are held during Holi. 
Location of it is Gorai, in the outer northwest suburbs of Mumbai. It's about 1.5 hours from the city center. Take a ferry from Marve Beach or Gorai Creek.


8. Della Adventure Park  
If you're into adventure more than amusement, you'll be able to enjoy an outstanding range of activities at Della Adventure Park. There are more than 50 to choose from including paintball, ATV rides, dirt bikes, buggy rides, flying fox, shooting, archery, rock climbing, zorbing, horse riding, and even cow milking. Resort accommodations are available for those who want to stay there.
Location of it is Lonavala, between Mumbai and Pune, in Maharashtra. It's just off the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. It's not far from Adlabs Imagica.



9.Nicco Park, Kolkata 
Nicco Park is an amusement park frequently visited for entertainment and recreational purposes. It is also called the "Disney Land of West Bengal" and attracts visitors in large numbers throughout the year. The park functions efficiently on solar energy that causes no pollution. Every aspect of the rides here is appropriately explained at the beginning for the visitors to learn. So, one will find charts and boards displayed at the entrance of every ride illustrating the principles used to ensure a safe and fun ride. The park has numerous amusement rides and shows which are not just recreational but educational also. It is, therefore, a favourite amongst parent and youngsters who often prefer the attraction as a picnic spot.

Nicco Park has been functioning as an amusement park for the past 20 years. It is the first amusement park in India that has obtained recognition from Quality Management System, Safety Management System and Environment Management System. Nicco Park is also the first amusement park in the world to have obtained a 'Social Accountability' certificate. Those looking for an entertaining, educational and a recreational escape must head to the Nicco Park.
Nicco Park is about 8 kilometres away from the city centre and can be reached by taxis, government-run buses or auto-rickshaws via Maniktala Main Road. From the city centre, take the route via Acharya Prafulla Chandra Road - Maniktala Main Road, 1st Cross Road - NH12 - GM Block Street Number 27.


10.Queens land in Sembarambakkam, Chennai
This park is promoted by Rajam Hotels (P) Ltd and was established in 2003. Queens land is quite an extensive theme park and is spread over an expansive area of 70 acres. QueensLand Chennai location is at Sembarambakkam on the Chennai – Bangalore Trunk Road. One can also arrive here by buses which are in service from Guindy and T. Nagar, also all the buses going to Sriperumpudhur from Chennai stop at Queensland. If you are coming here by your own vehicle than you don’t have to worry about parking at the park has ample parking space for cars.
This park is considered to be one of the best amusement parks in the city in terms of global standards of entertainment and service. The park is an entertainment retreat for the people of Chennai especially the kids who like to spend their weekends and vacations enjoying here.
The park is located by the Chennai-Bangalore Trunk Road between Sriperumpudhur and Poonamalle. There is parking for cars. Buses are available from Guindy and T. Nagar. All buses going to Sriperumpudhur from Chennai stop at Queensland.