1. Pangong Tso, Ladakh
A five-hour, mountainous drive away from Leh, the Pangong Tso, a brackish water lake, is one of the most picturesque spots in India. I’m sure you remember Kareena Kapoor riding a scooter in a red lehenga along the banks of the Pangong Tso! Did you know that the Line of Actual Control runs right through it, and a large part of the lake is in mainland China? It’s time to make my life as exciting as this!


2. Prashar Lake, Mandi
The Prashar Lake, is a glacial lake next to a Himachal-style temple dedicated to Sage Prashar, and is located 49 kilometers away from Mandi. It is an easy trek, even if you’re travelling with kids. The lake, with its dark, blue water stands starkly apart from the landscape both during summers and winters. The summers turn the Prashar landscape into a myriad of blue and green, whereas winters turn it into vistas of alpine white and blue.


3. Lake Pichola, Udaipur
An artificial lake built over the City Palace, Udaipur, Lake Pichola stretches as far as the eye can see. This beautiful lake measures 4 kilometres in length and about 3 in width. The City Palace overlooks the lake, and you can take long boat rides from Rameshwar Ghat. You can even take a sunset boat ride, which makes for a wonderful romantic experience!


4. Loktak Lake, Manipur
A hotspot for flora and fauna and the largest freshwater lake in North East India, Loktak Lake is famous for the floating phumdis over it. Phumdis mean an accumulated mass of soil, vegetation and other organic matter which is at various stages of decomposition. The masses make little islands on the lake, where people actually live. The sight of the little phumdis make the Loktak Lake an amazing sight to behold.


5. Chandrataal Lake, Spiti
A natural replica of the Pangong Tso in Spiti, situated at an altitude of 4300 metres, the Chandratal Lake gets its name from its crescent-like shape. Chandaratal literally means ‘Moon Lake’, and is situated at 7 kilometres from Kunzum La Pass in the Lahaul and Spiti district. The lake is a shade of blue close to sapphires, and is surrounded by broad grassy plains. The bonus, you ask? Spiti is the perfect place to spot the Milky Way and enjoy a peaceful vacation with no mobile interruption.


6. Tsomgo Lake, Gangtok
Located at a distance of 35 kilometres from Gangtok, on the road to Nathu La Pass. The sheer altitude at Tsomgo, or Changu Lake, as it is known in the local language, means that you can see the high peaks that surround the alpine, glacial lake. The water in the lake is fed by the melting ice nearby. Colourful prayer flags and bells surround the lake, making this one of the most amazing spots to visit in the eastern Himalayas.


7. Vembanad Lake, Kumarakom
Kumarakom is home to the Vembanad Lake, which lays claim to being one of the longest lakes in India and one of the largest lakes in Kerala! Plus, since the lake is lesser known it is less crowded, ensuring you have a peaceful experience. What’s even more fascinating, is that the lake is a combination of fresh and brackish water, divided by a saltwater barrier. Stay in a houseboat and soak in the beauty and serenity of Vembanad in the best possible way.


8. Dal Lake, Srinagar
To experience the pristine beauty of Kashmir in its full glory, Dal Lake needs to be on your travel itinerary. Although thronged by tourists ever since the days of Kashmir Ki Kali, Dal Lake is breathtakingly beautiful both during summer and winter, with two very different landscapes to flaunt. The 15 kilometre-round lake is dotted with houseboats from the Raj era, along with shikaras that ply across the lake, ferrying visitors from the boulevard to their houseboats, or on boat rides. The shikaras also act as vendors for all kinds of Kashmiri handicrafts and trinkets, fruits, flowers and vegetables.



9 chilika lake 
Chilika Lake is a brackish water lagoon, spread over the Puri, Khurda and Ganjam districts of Odisha state on the east coast of India, at the mouth of the Daya River, flowing into the Bay of Bengal, covering an area of over 1,100 km2. It is the largest coastal lagoon in India and the second largest coastal lagoon in the world[4][5][dubious – discuss] after The New Caledonian barrier reef in New Caledonia.[6]

It is the largest wintering ground for migratory birds on the Indian sub-continent. The lake is home to a number of threatened species of plants and animals.[7][8]

The lake is an ecosystem with large fishery resources. It sustains more than 150,000 fisher–folk living in 132 villages on the shore and islands

10 Vembanad lake :

Vembanad (Vembanad Kayal or Vembanad Kol) is the longest lake in India,[1] and the largest lake in the state of Kerala. Spanning several districts in the state of Kerala, it is known as Vembanadu Lake in Kottayam, Punnamada Lake in Kuttanad and Kochi Lake in Kochi. Several groups of small islands including Vypin, Mulavukad, Vallarpadam, Willingdon Island are located in the Kochi Lake portion. Kochi Port is built around the Willingdon Island and the Vallarpadam island.

The Nehru Trophy Boat Race is conducted in a portion of the lake. High levels of pollution have been noticed at certain hotspots of the Vembanad backwaters. Government of India has identified the Vembanad wetland under National Wetlands Conservation Programme

