1. Indus River
Indus River flows through Pakistan, Jammu and Kashmir, and Western Tibet. It is the longest river in India and one of the longest rivers in Asia. The length of the Indus River is 2900 km, passes from various cities such as Leh, Dera Ismail Khan, Sukkur, and Hyderabad.Moenjodaro, Harappa, Thatta, and Taxila are popular tourist attractions along the Indus River. A lot of popular travel destinations are also located along the river.

 
2. Brahmaputra River
The Brahmaputra River is one of the longest rivers in India. The length of the Brahmaputra River is 2900 km. It originates from Lake Manasarovar and ends in the Bay of Bengal. The Brahmaputra River passes from the North Eastern state.
Brahmaputra River cruise is a popular activity among the adventure lovers. It is one of the most popular river cruises in India.


3. Ganga River
Ganges River is one of the sacred rivers in India. It passes from the states of West Bengal and Uttarakhand. According to the Hindu mythology and culture, the Bhagirathi river is the source stream of the river Ganges. The length of the river Ganges is 2510 km.
Ganga River Cruise is one of the most popular travel activities in the coastal areas. A good number of cruise companies offers Ganges River cruise package.


4. Godavari River
The Godavari River is one of the longest rivers in India after the Indus River, Ganges river, and Brahmaputra river. The flow of this river starts from Nasik Hills and end into the Bay of Bengal. The river also passes from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Godavari River forms one of the largest river basins in India. The length of the river Godavari is 1450 km.
A good number of travel operators in India offers Godavari river package tour for tourists. It is one of the best experiences you should try once in your lifetime.


5. Narmada River
Narmada River is one of the sacred rivers in India for the Hinduism followers across the world. The length of the Narmada River is 1290. It originates from Amarkantak Hill, Madhya Pradesh and ends in the Arabian Sea. The Narmada River passes from two states, namely, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.
Only a selected number of cruise operators and boat renting companies offers services for Narmada river.
 

6. Krishna River
The Krishna River is the sixth biggest river in India by length. The length of Krishan River is 1290 km and originates from Mahabaleshwar, Maharashtra and ends in the Bay of Bengal. The Krishna River passes from two states, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.
Krishna River cruise packages offer good experience. If you are on budget, then renting boat is one of the best options to experience the beauty of Krishna River.


7. Yamuna River
The Yamuna River is the seventh longest river in India. The length of the Yamuna River is 1211. It originates from Garhwall in Yamunotri and ends in the Bay of Bengal. The river passes from three states, namely, Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh.
Only a handful boat operators offers boat renting service. We do not have more information about cruise package for Yamuna River.


8. Mahanadi River
Mahanadi River is the 8th longest river in India by length. It originates from Amarkantak Plateau and ends in the Bay of Bengal. It passes from three states, namely, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, and Orissa (Odisha).


9. Kaveri River
The Kaveri River is one of the most sacred rivers in India. It is also one of the major rivers in India. The length of the Kaveri River is 760 km. The river originates from the hills of Coorg, Karnataka and ends in the Bay of Bengal. It passes from two states, namely, Karnataka and Tamilnadu.
A few travel operators offers best cruise package as well as boat renting service.


10. Tapi River
The Tapi River is one of the longest and biggest rivers in India. The length of the Tapi River is 724 km. The Tapi River originates from Bettul and ends in the Arabian Sea. The river passes from two states, namely, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.
A good number of boat operating companies offers boat renting service. A boat ride in the Tapi river offers good experience to travellers.