1.Mehranghar fort,jodhpur
The Great Mehrangarh Fort is located in Jodhpur city of Rajasthan, It is more then 500 years old and one of the largest forts in India.The Mehrangarh Fort is situated 400 above form the city and founded by Rao Jodha. There are seven gates built by each Maharaja’s for their victory,A gate named Jayapol built by Maharaja Man Singh.

Inside the fort, several brilliantly crafted and decorated palaces are found like Moti Mahal,Sheesha Mahal etc. The Chamunda Devi temple and museum is situated inside of the Mehrangarh Fort. The museum in the Mehrangarh fort is one of the most well-stocked museums in Rajasthan. The Royal State Rajasthan is great for many reasons,it is one of the most visited tourist destination in India. Rajasthan is famous for its Great Thar Desert, Beautiful lakes, National parks and a attractive lifestyle.

2.Red Fort,Delhi

Lal Quila or The Red Fort is the most important historical buildings in India,located at Delhi built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. Due to the thick red sandstone walls this largest monuments called as red fort. Important buildings and other structures inside the forts are A mosque known as Moti Masjid,Diwan-i-Aam etc.

The fort lies along the “holy river of India” Yamuna River. There is an archaeological museum and an Indian war memorial museum within the fort. It is most powerful symbol of India’s sovereignty,The Prime Minister of India addresses the nation and raises the flag of India on Independence and Republic Day of India.

3.Gwalior Fort, Gwalior

Gwalior Fort the beautiful historical monument located in Madhya Pradesh built by Rana Man Singh Tomar. This magnificent monument holds a specimen of the wonderful ancient Indian architecture. The major attraction of Gwalior fort are famous Sas-Bahu temple,Gujari Mahal which is now a museum and The Man Mandir.

The majestic monument is one of the biggest forts in India and a postage stamp has been issued to remember the importance of this fort. Madhya Pradesh the Heartland of India ranks among the most popular tourist attractions in India for its wonderful ancient Indian architecture.

4.Jaisalmer Fort,Jaisalmer

Jaisalmer fort,one of the largest forts in the world,situated in the state of Rajasthan,built by Rawal Jaisal. The magnificent foundation of Jaisalmer Fort is situated in the midst of the sandy terrain of the Great Thar Desert. Jaisalmer fort is also known as Sonar quila and “Golden Fort, built on the triangular shaped Trikuta hill, 76 m above the town.

The second oldest fort in the state of Rajasthan counted as one of the most invincible forts in India. Major attractions inside the forts are Jain temples,Royal palace and big gates. Jaisalmer is the land of sand also famous for it Trikuta Hill,Havelis, palace and Lakes.

5.Golconda Fort – Hyderabad

The famous Golconda fort located at Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, built by Kakatiya kings. The heritage monument is known for its rich history and a majestic and imposing grand structure. Golkonda was once renowned for the Magnificent diamonds found on the south-east at Kollur Mine near Kollur lake.

The awesome Golconda Fort is famous for its military architecture and One of the most wonderful monuments in India. Golconda Fort is counted as Seven Wonders of Hyderabad, others are Charminar,Birla Mandir,Ramoji Film City, Hussain sagar, salarjung museum and Mecca Masjid the Biggest mosque in Hyderabad.

6.Red Fort – Agra

It is the most important fort in India situated in AgraUttar Pradesh,about 2Km form its more famous sister monument, “The Taj Mahal”. Sikandar Lodi was the first Sultan of Delhi who shifted to Agra and lived in the fort. The a UNESCO World Heritage site is lies on the right bank of the river Yamuna.

Agra Fort also known as the red fort of Agra is among the best tourist places in Uttar Pradesh. Jhansi fort another marvelous architecture of forts in India.The fort was a residence of Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi located in Uttar Pradesh.

7 Amber Fort (Amer Fort)

It is an old fort, built in 1592 by Raja Man Singh.

This is one of the most iconic forts of India. Overlooking a serene lake in the town of Amer in Rajasthan, the Amer Fort is built on a hill and is a popular tourist attraction in Jaipur. Constructed of red sandstone and marble, you can find many Hindu style elements inside this fort. The fort is also a palace, and you can stroll in the vast courtyards here or experience unmatched opulence in the Diwan-i-Khas. You could also visit the intriguing Sheesh Mahal which is made entirely from mirrors inside the palace.

8.Kangra Fort – Kangra


The famous Kangra fort built by the Royal family of Kangra, situated on the confluence of the Banganga and Manjhi Rivers in the Kangra valley of Himachal Pradesh. The famous monumental fort is count amongst the oldest forts in the world. It is the largest fort in the Himalayas and the oldest forts in India,

The most valuable monuments in the Kangra Fort is Vajreshwari temple. The most beautiful way to look Kangra Fort by the road during journey. The famous monumental attractions of Himachal Pradesh is very near to famous Dharamsala.

9.Chittaurgarh Fort – Chittaurgarh

Chittaurgarh Fort is the largest fort of India and the grandest in the state of Rajasthan. It is situated on the left bank of the Berach river. It is also called as Water Fort, The fort had 84 water bodies inside, out of which only about 22 exist today. This living testimony represent the bravery of Maharana Pratap Singh and the great Rajput rulers of Rajasthan.


10.Kumbhalgarh Fort Rajasthan
The fort that has made its mark in history as the second largest wall after the Great Wall of China – it is none but the Kumbhalgarh fort in Rajasthan. The mighty fort is 3600 ft tall and 38km long that surrounds the area of Udaipur. It was considered to have been built by Rana Kumbha in the 15th century. The fort is further declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site that is under the group Hill Forts of Rajasthan. It is located strategically on the western Aravalli hills.

Having witnessed a large number of wars, the hill serves as the boundary that is unbreakable. The fort that has seven fortified gateways and a number of Jain temples within it , along with the Lakhola Tank which is the most famous tank inside the fort that was constructed by Rana Lakha. 