1. Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi 
Home to the President of the world’s largest democracy, is emblematic of Indian democracy and its secular, plural and inclusive traditions. It was designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker and stands on a 330 acre estate. It took seventeen years to build this presidential palace which was completed in the year 1929. Almost seven hundred million bricks and three million cubic feet of stone were used in building this architectural marvel that has 2.5 kilometers of corridors and 190 acres of garden area. The main building covers an area of 5 acres and has 340 rooms spread over four floors. The famous Mughal Gardens of the Rashtrapati Bhavan cover an area of 15 acres and have 159 celebrated varieties of roses, 60 varieties of bougainvillea and many other verities of flowers. The Estate also has a state-of-the-art Rashtrapati Bhavan Museum Complex (RBMC) comprising the Clock Tower, the Stables and the Garages showcasing past as well as current presidencies, the regal ceremonies, and the rich flora and fauna of Rashtrapati Bhavan, amongst other things. 


2. Vidhana Soudha, Bengaluru
Located in Bengaluru, Vidhana Soudha is the seat of the state legislature of Karnataka. The structure is constructed in style known as Mysore Neo-Dravidian, along with incorporations of Indo-Saracenic and Dravidian styles of architecture. Kengal Hanumanthaiah was the brainchild behind this architectural marvel, whose foundation-a stone-was laid by then then prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, in the year 1952 and was officially declared open in the year 1956.
The five-storeyed structure is the largest legislative building in the country which is spread across an area of 2,300 ft by 1,1150 ft. At the entrance of the building, one would notice an inscription which reads, "Government's Work is God's Work" and its Kannada equivalent "Sarkarada Kelasa Devara Kelasa". Intrestingly the structure celebrates its 60th anniversary this year.


3. Writer's Building, Kolkata
The Writer's Building is the secretariat building of the State Government of West Bengal, which is located in the city of Kolkata. The building housed the office of the chief minister of West Bengal until 2013, the building originally served as the office for writers of the British East India Company-from where it gets name.
The structure was designed by Thomas Lyon in the year 1777 and has been renovated multiple times over the period of time. The building measures 150 m in length and stretches itself to a water body known as Lal Dighi; it also holds an important place in the Indian Independence Movement.

4. Supreme Court, New Delhi
The highest judicial forum, Supreme Court, is now open for the general public on Saturdays. The newly instated CJI on Friday had said that the opening of the "public institution" is “experiment, a very limited exposure to the Supreme Court, a public institution that I thought should be opened up in a limited way. They also launched a portal, through which one can book ‘guided tours’ to the Supreme Court. The guided tour “is a great opportunity to gain inside access to the grand interiors of the Supreme Court building and admire the majestic structure in its full glory.”
During the guided tour, the visitors will be accompanied throughout the premises and introduced to parts of historical importance. The Supreme Court of India is open to the general public from 10:00 AM to 1:00 PM every Saturday except on declared holidays. The tour is expected to be an hour long where an official of the Court will be assigned as your tour guide who will elaborate upon the structure of the Indian legal system and will also give intriguing examples of decided cases and the historical significance behind the architecture of the building.


5. Kerala Government Secretariat, Thiruvananthapuram
The seat of administration of the government of Kerala, the secretariat is the office of important ministers and bureaucrats. The structure is a very popular landmark which is located right at the heart of Thiruvananthapuram city located on the Narmada Road; the complex was originally built as to serve as the Durbar Hall for the Travancore kingdom.
The foundation of the structure was laid by His Highness Ayilyam Thirunal Maharaja in the year 1865 and was completed in the year 1869. The structure was planned as the Durbar Hall where the king could meet his council of ministers; it was designed and built under the leadership of Barton who was the then chief engineer of Travancore, who incorporated Roman and Dutch elements in its architecture.


6. Raj Bhawan, Nainital
Uttarakhand is one of the few states in the country which has two Raj Bhavans, which is the official residence of the governor of the state. The first one is located in Dehradun and the second one in Nainital. During the pre-independence time, Nainital was the summer capital of the United Provinces which is the present Uttar Pradesh.
Built on the lines of a Scottish castle, it was named as Government House and was renamed as Raj Bhavan after Independence. The structure is the only Raj Bhavan which is open for tourists unlike the other, where entry is restricted.


7. the Parliament House, New Delhi
Located at the end of the Sansad Marg, the Parliament House or Sansad Bhavan is one of the most impressive buildings in New Delhi. The Parliament House comprises of a central hall which is circular in shape and is considered to be very important part of the building since this is the place where the Indian Constitution was drafted. The Parliament houses the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and a library hall. There lies a garden in between three chambers. Not just this, but Parliament House also has the facilities for the accommodation for the ministers, the important officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, Chairman and Parliamentary Committees.
With the aim of educating people on Democratic Heritage of India, The Parliament House also houses a museum which dates back to 2500 back and is set up in a very interesting way and is made complete with light videos and sounds, large interactive computer screens and others. Constructed in the Imperial Style, the Parliament House consists of an open verandah with around 144 columns.


8. Madras High Court, Chennai
The Madras High Court is a fine example of Indo-Saracenic style of architecture and was built in the year 1892. The structure was designed by J.W. Brassington along with the guidance of the well-known architect, Henry Irwin. The court is one of the three high courts in the country which was established in the three presidency cities by the letters patent granted by Her Majesty Queen Victoria in the year 1862.


9. Secretariat Building, New Delhi 
is where the Cabinet Secretariat is housed, which administers the Government of India. Built in the 1910s, it is home to some of the most important ministries of theCabinet of India. Situated on Raisina Hill, New Delhi, the Secretariat buildings are two blocks of symmetrical buildings (North Block and South Block) on opposite sides of the great axis of Rajpath, and flanking theRashtrapati Bhavan (President’s House).
Both the identical building have four levels, each with about 1,000 rooms, in the inner courtyards to make space for future expansions. In continuation with the Viceroy’s House, these buildings also used cream and red Dholpur sandstone from Rajasthan, with the red sandstone forming the base. Together the buildings were designed to form two squares. They have broad corridors between different wings and wide stairways to the four floors and each building is topped by a giant dome, while each wings end with colonnaded balcony.
These are visible in the use of Jali, perforated screens, to protect from scorching sun and monsoon rains of India. Another feature of the building is a dome-like structure known as the Chatri, a design unique to India, used in ancient times to give relief to travelers by providing shade from the hot Indian sun.


10. Mantralaya, Maharashtra
Earlier known as Sachivalaya, Mantralaya is the administrative headquarters of the state government of Maharashtra. Located in South Mumbai near Nariman Point, the building was built in 1955 and is one of the most prominent landmarks of the city. The Parliment building is a seven storeyed building housing most of the departments of the state government. Officials like the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister sit on the sixth floor and the Chief Secretary on the fifth floor. There is also a new building constructed due to the increasing number of departments and staff. The building stands opposite Mantralaya and contains 13 floors. An example of stunning architecture, you may not be allowed to enter the building, but it's worth seeing from the outside.