1. Nainital, Uttarakhand
Nainital is a small town in the Kumaon range in Uttarakhand. It is known as the ‘Lake District of India’ and is one of the most popular honeymoon destinations in India, Nainital also provides ample opportunities for fun and exploration for the solo traveller. Parasailing, horse-riding, kayaking, canoeing, and rock climbing attract adventure lovers. The Naini Lake, Tiffin Top, Snow View, and Naini Peak are among the most popular tourist spots in this town. The bazaars in this town are always busy and the streets lead to beautiful forest patches. Nainital is a place that demands to be experienced again and again. 


2. Manali, Himachal Pradesh
With its scenic snow-clad peaks and lush forests, this little town in the Kullu Valley offers a variety of activities. Camping, heli-skiing, rock climbing, trekking, and rafting are among the top adventure sports here. That is not to say there isn’t more to do. Other tourist destinations of Manali include Solang Valley, Rohtang Pass, and many Tibetan monasteries around the area.


3. Mussoorie, Uttarakhand
Mussoorie offers a view of the Doon valley to the south and the Himalayas to the north. This hill station is located around 34 kilometres from Dehradun and is developed especially for tourism. You will not have the slightest difficulty finding what to do next in this charming town. Stroll along Mall road, take rides in cable cars up to Gun Hill, or see the beautiful town and beyond from the highest point, Lal Tibba.


4. Gulmarg, Jammu and Kashmir
In summers, Gulmarg becomes a paradise with impressive treks to explore. The city has the highest gondola in the world that runs up to almost 4,000 metres above ground level. Skiing and snowboarding are the main tourist activities in the area. The main market offers tourists with jewellery, pashmina, and souvenirs. Hotels, bars and ‘dhabas’ serve delicious food in and around the market area.


5. Darjeeling, West Bengal
Famous for its large tea estates, Darjeeling has magnificent views of Mount Kanchenjunga, waterfalls, and several hills. The historic Toy Train makes for a memorable ride and the Senchal Lake, Ghoom Monastery, and Observatory Hill are among the most popular tourist attractions of Darjeeling. Make sure you stay in a tea estate and resort to experience Darjeeling’s beauty to the fullest.


6. Shillong, Meghalaya
Widely known as the ‘Scotland of the East’, Shillong is the capital city of Meghalaya. Monsoon is the best time to visit Shillong, as the entire city breathes a new life in the rains. The surrounding landscapes in Shillong are captivating, to say the least. You can spend your time here at the Shillong peak and gaze at the lush green hills, have a picnic near Elephant Falls, or enjoy a boat ride over the Umiam Lake. For the adventurer in you, try the water sports like kayaking and water skiing at any of the stunning lakes in the city.


7. Binsar, Uttarakhand
A small town nestled within the Binsar Wildlife Sanctuary; Binsar is blessed with overwhelming views of snow-clad peaks like Nanda Devi, Kedarnath, Panchachuli, Chaukhamba, and Nanda Kot. Among other attractions in Uttarakhand, the Zero Point is a must visit because of its panoramic views of the Himalayan peaks. On top of that, do visit the Binsar Wildlife Sanctuary which is home to several beautiful species of birds, plants and rare animals. 


8. Gangtok, Sikkim
Gangtok, the vibrant capital of Sikkim, offers extravagant joys of the city in addition to the quaint aura of a hill station. The city has a ropeway which offers a bird’s eye view of the city and surrounding locales. Walking is the best way for visitors to explore Gangtok and its charming people. The main market features various businesses selling local handicrafts which make perfect gifts. Several restaurants and bars around the city provide local delicacies as well as international cuisine. Days in Gangtok can be well spent at the Tashi View Point, Banjhakri Hill, Rumtek Monastery and the Tsongmo Lake.


9. Kodaikanal, Tamil Nadu
Kodaikanal literally translates to “The Gift of The Forest”. Nestled in the Palani Hills, this is a rather secluded town. The must-visit places in Kodaikanal include the Kodai Lake, Guna caves, and Green Valley view. You can cycle around the lake, go boating or horseback riding, or even take an aromatherapy session at the nearest spa!


10. Tawang, Arunachal Pradesh
Tawang has the country’s largest Tibetan Monastery which is a home to almost 500 lamas. The refreshing mountain air and wonderful treks make Twang a trekker’s paradise. You can visit the 400-year-old Tawang Gompa and turn the prayer wheels outside it, see yaks graze in the lovely hills, or walk around the town for a little chat with the friendly locals.