1. Chikmagalur  
Coffee-Plantation-in-Karnataka

Chikmagalur is first place in India where coffee was introduced, It is also known as coffee land of Karnataka. Chikmagalur is one of the famous hill stations in Karnataka state, located in the foothills of Mullayanagiri range. Its geography and climate makes it one of the largest coffee estates in Karnataka followed by Kodagu, coorg and Hassan. Mullayanagiri is the highest peak of Karnataka situated in the Baba Budan Giri Range of the Western Ghats and tallest peak between the Himalayas and the Nilgiris,known as best place for trekking in Karnataka.


2. Wayanad
Coffee-Plantation-in-Kerala

The green paradise of Malabar region,Wyanad is located between the mountains of the majestic Western Ghats. Wayanad is the one of the best hill station of Kerala followed by Munnar,nalliyampathy and Rajamala. The beautiful hill region is surrounded by ever green forest, Pookkode Lake and Karapuzha Dam near by,Its pleasant climate is best for coffee and tea cultivation so also known as Coffee County of Kerala. Major variety of coffee cultivated in this region are Rubusta and Arabica. Malabar region is known for its beautiful hill, green valleys and cool climate which makes its one of the best place for flora and fauna.Coffee-Plantation-in-Kerala


3. Yercaud
Coffee-Plantation-in-TamilNadu
The small and young hill station of Tamil Nadu is located in the Salem District.Yercaud is situated in the Shevaroys range of hills in the Eastern Ghats and got its name due to forest near the lake mean to Lake Forest. Cool climate and silent valley of Yercaud known as the best coffee forests in India. Nilgiris District, Coonoor and Kodaikanal are other place in Tamil Nadu which are known for coffee plantation in India, Nilgiris District is also known for tea cultivation.


4. Araku
Coffee-Plantation-in-Andhra-Pradesh
Araku is a hill station in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh, in the Eastern Ghats of India inhabited by different types of tribes. Coffee Plantation in Araku is known for its first tribal growers’ organic coffee brand. Coffee cultivation industry is secondary here, as pepper and rubber are cultivated by the tribal all around the state. The amazing Araku valley is surrounded by Galikonda, Raktakonda, Sunkarimetta and Chitamogondi mountains and Anantagiri and Sunkarimetta Reserved Forest. Other coffee producer regions of Andhra Pradesh are Chintapalli, Paderu and Maredumilli in the Eastern Ghats of India. The area from Visakhapatnam to East Godavari districts are also known for coffee plantation in the state.


5. Daringbadi

Daringbadi is known as Kashmir of Orissa,located in the hill region of Orissa and the only hill station of state. Daringbadi is one of the youngest coffee plantation region in India followed by Chintapalli, Himachal Pradesh and Assam. This beautiful region is gifted with dense pine jungles, long coffee gardens,majestic Mountain and amazing valleys. Daringbadi offers cool climate, landscape beauty, deep dense forest, Tribal people and pleasant environment, still unexplored and untouched. Koraput district in Orissa is another place known for most traded commodities, the rich coffee plantation.


Chikhaldara hill station is the only coffee growing area in Maharashtra and the sole hill resort in the Vidarbha region at an altitude of 1118 m.


6. Assam
Assam-Tea-Plantation

Assam Tea is a black tea produce from large-leaved of tea plants. The world’s largest tea-growing region is situated in the side of great Brahmaputra River and receive high downfall during the monsoon. Tropical climate of Assam gives a unique feature to its tea,a malty taste for which this tea is well known in the world. Region of Cachar,lowlands of Assam and Barak Valley are also produce small quantities of green and white teas. Assam is the only region with native tea plants in India and second in the world after southern region of China.


7. Darjeeling
Darjeeling-Tea-Plantation

Darjeeling, the beautiful hill station of of West Bengal, located in the Mahabharat range is known for major tourist destination along with its tea industry. The Himalayan city produce tea from small-leaved, which is known for its taste and aroma. Darjeeling tea is also known as black teas but now oolong and green teas are also becoming popular in the state to produce, some area is also producing white teas. Each tea garden of Darjeeling produce teas of different characteristics in taste and aroma such as Arya,Badamtam,Ging,Happy Valley Pussimbing and Kaley Valley.


8. Nilgiri
Nilgiri-Tea-Plantation

Nilgiris is a District in the Tamil Nadu, and a mountain range spread across the Tamilnadu Karnataka as well as Kerala. Nilgiri tea is famous for its dark color, fragrant and flavored, Generally grown in the hills of the Nilgiris or blue mountains. The blue mountains of India is home to many beautiful hill stations like Ooty, Queen of hill stations and Coonoor. Coonoor tea garden and Ooty tea gardens are famous as one of the popular tourist attraction.


9. Munnar
Munnar-Tea-Plantation

Tea County of Kerala, Munnar is a famous hill station located on the majestic Western Ghats of India. The hill city is a range of mountains situated at the confluence of three mountain streams Madhurapuzha, Nallathanni and Kundaly rivers in the Idukki district. Scenic Tea gardens of Munnar are one of the major attraction along with beautiful flora and fauna around. Munnar is also known as one of the best monsoon destination in India. Tea plantation is spread from Munnar to Central Travancore and further south in state of Kerala. Apart from lush green hills and tea plantations Idukki is famous for its 168.91 m tall arch dam, stands between the two mountains on the Periyar River known as Idukki Dam.


10. Coorg
Coorg-Tea-Plantation

The most popular hill station of Indian state Karnataka is located in the Western Ghats. Kodagu or Coorg, the popular monsoon destination of south India is well known for its coffee cultivation in the world, but Tea is another crops cultivated in the hill regions of Western Ghats along with including para rubber, teak, and cocoa. Thippanahalli and kudremukh are also famous for tea plantations,Eco-tourism and trekking.
Tea culture of India makes us one of the highly tea consumption country in the world. South Indian states are traditional coffee growing regions rest of the states including Orissa in the eastern coast, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh of Northeastern India are the non-traditional areas for coffee plantation but good for tea. The seven sister states are best place for tea plantation and offers a wide range of tea includes herbal tea,green tea etc.
