1. Indhira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi
The Delhi airport has an annual passenger capacity of over 40 million. It has the sixth largest terminal in the world and scores high for on-time performance, an aspect that is crucial to travellers’ satisfaction. The user-friendly app, flyDEL, classy ambience, clear signages and abundance of shopping and eating outlets make it one of the top airports in India.
Indira Gandhi International Airport tops the list of the busiest airports in India in terms of the passenger traffic and cargo movements during the financial year 2017-18.
In 2017, this airport stood at the 16th position among the busiest airports in the world and occupied the 7th place among the busiest airports in Asia in terms of passenger traffic.
It is also the busiest airport for Airbus A320 aircraft in the world. There are plans being made to increase the capacity of the airport to manage 100 million passengers by 2030.


2. Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai
One of the best-in-class International airports in India, this airport has 5 operating terminals, caters to 42 million passengers and has a record high of 969 take offs and landings in a single day. It never fails to delight guests and offers comforts and conveniences while ensuring efficiency, safety and environment care. 
Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport is the second busiest airport in terms of passenger and cargo traffic in India during the financial year 2017-18. In 2017, it stood at the 14th position among the busiest airports in Asia and at the 29th position among the busiest airports in the world for passenger traffic.


3. Chennai International Airport, Chennai
Being one of the main gateways for travellers to South India, this airport sees around 18 million passengers a year. While it doesn’t have many modern facilities as per international standards, it has undergone expansions to include parallel runways and taxiways.
Chennai International Airport is located in Tirusulam, 21 km away from the city of Chennai. It is the fourth busiest airport in India in terms of the passenger traffic, aircraft and cargo movements in India during the financial year 2017-18. In 2017, it was also named as the 50th busiest airport. 


4. Cochin International Airport, Kerala
Cochin Airport is the first airport in the world to run completely on solar energy. It is the and fourth largest airport in India and biggest one in Kerala, catering to 65% of travellers. The airport handles over 10 million passengers annually and handles over 230 aircraft movements per day. It was also selected as the best-non metro airport in India in 2017 by the Air Passengers Association of India.
Cochin International Airport, situated at Nedumbassery in the Kerala state, is the largest and the busiest airport in Kerala. During the financial year 2017-18, it handled almost 10.2 million passengers and occupies the seventh place in the overall air traffic of India. In 2017, the airport catered to 63.86% of the total air passenger movement in Kerala.


5. Kempegowda International Airport, Bangalore
Kempegowda International Airport is one of India’s busiest – handling 22 million passengers a year. Both domestic and international travellers share the same check-in hall. The expansive terminal spans over 150,000 square feet. The airport also has a new terminal called Code F aerobridge to accommodate an Airbus 1380 aircraft.
Kempegowda International Airport occupies the third place among the busiest airport in the country by passenger traffic during the financial year 2017-18.
It was also the 34th busiest airport in Asia in 2017. The airport served more than 25.04 million passengers in 2017 with over 600 aircraft movements a day. This airport is the first fully solar-powered airport in the Karnataka state developed by CleanMax Solar. 


6. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Hyderabad
The Hyderabad Airport in Shamshabad has consistently been featured among top airports in India for its Airport Service Quality. Spread over 5400 acres, it is one of India’s busiest airports, handling 40 million passengers through seamless crowd control, while being environmentally conscious.
The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) serves the city of Hyderabad, the capital of Telangana. Located at Shamshabad, approximately 22 km from the city-center, RGIA is operated by a public-private partnership, GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. (GHIAL). It commenced commercial operations on 23 March 2008. RGIA is the sixth busiest airport in India, in terms of passenger traffic, aircraft movement, and cargo traffic for the fiscal year 2016-17. It has received numerous awards in different categories, such as the Golden Peacock Business Excellence Award 2017 and a 5-star rating on Health and Safety, honored by the British Safety Council. It is the first airport in its category in the Asia-Pacific region to achieve level 3+ carbon neutrality. Its eco-friendly design made it the first airport in the world to be awarded the LEED silver rating. It has also featured among the world’s top 3 airports for the 7th time in a row, for ASQ (Airport Service Quality).
RGIA has a single integrated passenger terminal whose western side handles international flights and the eastern side handles domestic flights. With 2 runways, the airport has a capacity to handle 12 million passengers annually (MPA), with plans for expanding its capacity to cater to 40 MPA. 
There is also a proposal to build India’s first Airport City (Aerotropolis) in the airport’s vicinity, which will focus on sustainable development using green technologies. 


7. Goa International Airport, Goa
This government run airport is situated on a military air base and serves the entire state of Goa. It primarily caters to domestic flights with a handful of flights from the Middle East and seasonal charters. 
Dabolim Airport or Goa International Airport occupies the 10th position among the busiest airports in India with over 50000 flights handled in 2017. These flights included scheduled, chartered and seasonal ones. The airport catered to more than 7.6 million passengers during the fiscal year 2017-18. After the inauguration of its new terminal in 2013, this airport handled almost 7.6 passengers every year.


8. Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, Kolkata
Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, located in Kolkata comes fifth in the list of the busiest airports in India in terms of passenger traffic during the financial year 2017-18. The airport managed nearly 20 million passengers during this period. This airport attracts the major air traffic in the eastern part of the country.
Though this airport stands on the fifth place among the busiest Indian airports in terms of passenger and cargo movements, it also witnessed a slight fall in the aircraft movements in comparison to the aircraft movements at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport during the financial year 2017-18.


9. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport majorly serves the cities of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar in Gujarat. During the fiscal year 2017-18, the airport managed almost 9.2 million passengers making it the eighth-busiest airport in terms of the passenger traffic, aircraft movements, and cargo handling in India.

10. Pune International Airport, Pune 
Pune Airport stands at the 9th place among the busiest airports in India during the financial year 2017-18. It was accessed by more than 8 million passengers in 2017. A part of this airport comes under the Indian Air Force. It has two runways but only one is used for the purpose of flights, the other is utilized for the movements of military aircraft.